there is a story going around the
internet and the reasons people have for
telling this story are maybe more
interesting than the question of whether
it is false or true it ain't true
like most stories on the internet it's
kind of a fabrication made up
of ready-made facts misappropriated and
misassembled into something that i know
it resembles the truth but there is a
story going on the internet
about a youtuber called shoe on head
why should you care why would i care why
would anybody care shuan had made the
transition from being a comedy youtube
channel to being a pretty serious
political commentary youtube channel
notably during the
fleeting candidacy of bernie sanders
what why does this matter to me
i regard shoe on head as an idiot
i wish i had 10 friends like she wanted
my life
i wish i had 10 friends like her
yeah i'd prefer if they were smarter and
more hard-working and more earnest than
her i wish
that which they have all kinds of
redeeming quality she like but even
even in the absence of such redeeming
qualities
sure i wish i had 10 friends who were
coming on the internet
and trying to talk about politics and
trying to talk about how to make the
world a better place
and even if i regard shoe on head as an
imbecile
i can recognize that when she was
covering and discussing the candidacy of
bernie sanders
she was really sincerely motivated by
trying to make the world a better place
and she
she's someone who is trying to give
herself an
education in politics and economics that
she had never received formally or
informally
and with that i can sympathize
if you take a look at her instagram
she still presents herself as a sexy
teenager when i say teenager
like she dresses up like a teenager
or even like a child she dresses up in
school uniforms school girls skirts
she quite literally represents herself
as being decades younger than she is
there is a kind of strangely infantile
quality
to her behavior on camera
and that originated as an imitation
of another much more successful
youtuber known as boxy it's boxy spelled
with several x's
um boxy grew up
boxy moved on she has another youtube
channel where she films herself not
playing that fictional character that
she developed when she was a teenager
herself
boxy is now a middle-aged woman with a
normal job
what videos she still has on youtube
about that time in her life are quite
boring
boxy grew up and moved on there's part
of shoe on head that
refuses to grow up and move on and you
know what
i can sympathize with that too you know
i can sympathize and want to keep this
kind of
insoucial youthful vibe
on zero on camera persona all right
but i think it insulates her against
people really taking her seriously
as a political commenter the most recent
image she posted herself
on instagram is her doing a sexy pose in
like a teenage school girl
uniform and the written comment is you
guys like me
because of my quality political analysis
right
right you know drawing attention is fact
that in fact a lot of people
and a lot of people will be addressed in
this video because now she has broken up
with her boyfriend
she's single so the vultures are
circling
and people want to know who is going to
be mr chuan head who's going to be her
next boyfriend who's gonna be her
husband what have you
and her relationship with that boyfriend
was very public
and very publicly embarrassing and they
talked about their sex life and there
were a lot of things to be embarrassed
about
topic for another video the story
circulating the internet today is that
one during her relationship with her
boyfriend
she's never broken up with she became
more and more left-wing
and in her state of devastation
after the breakup she has now been
lulled into socialism
she's been seduced into the slippery
slope that leads to communism
that she has become more and more
left-wing you know in part because those
people have reached out to her and been
positive and supportive and
kind at a time in her life when she was
frankly vulnerable good story
the truth is much stranger
much simpler but also much harder to
believe the truth is that shuan had
today and for many years
has been and still is a so-called
left libertarian she describes herself
as a libertarian
socialist or a socialist libertarian
a completely self-contradictory
ludicrous
and absurd political philosophy that has
never
commanded any significant percentage of
the american public's attention
and i would like to say in this video
never will
now i think libertarianism itself
is dumb so it's not going to be
surprising that i think
left libertarianism and her particular
version
of left libertarianism is yet more dumb
still
and i would note that in her period of
support for bernie sanders
she never really dealt with the aspects
of his political philosophy and his
economic philosophy
that really are conservative with a
lowercase letter
c i've made many videos talking about
those things and
no offense meant she went ahead i don't
think she read his book
i don't think she actually read bernie
sanders book in which he sets out what
his political philosophy is what his
program for economic performance
uh et cetera so she was piecing together
her opinion from just
bits and pieces of information on
twitter
i really am morally opposed to the whole
genre
of youtube videos that consist of people
getting angry about things they've read
on twitter could we just
evolve past that and i would point out
that someone on the far left like shuwon
had
is just as guilty of this as sargon of
akkad
on the other side like their idea of
research is
reading and contrasting some twitter
comments to one another and they're
getting animated getting heated about it
on camera
i have no respect for this mode of
youtube broadcasting
let people read it on twitter for
themselves or do your own research or
have have some kind of better message to
bring in my opinion
um left libertarianism
or libertarian socialism it's very
difficult
to understand the abstract and then it's
easy to understand if we deal with
palpable examples
education do you believe that education
should be provided
by the state by the government do you
think compulsory education
should be paid for by taxpayers and yes
that people should be
forced to put their children into a
school where those children will learn
how to use a condom how birth control
pills work
the theory of evolution the fact that
the earth is not flat that it's round
the history of sir isaac newton's
discovery of gravity
the terrible history of colonialism
genocide and slavery a lot of things
their parents
might not want to teach them right i
mean even even my own parents were
really not comfortable
with how awful the history of the
british empire was they tried to flatter
the british empire industry you got to
go to school and learn some really
sad things about history too in england
they
really in england they have huge
problems trying to force students to
learn the history of the holocaust
a lot of students grew up with parents
who were holocaust deniers and then they
come to school and there's a conflict
with the teacher home
you're going to teach kids the reality
of what happened in world war ii and if
and if not the government then who
libertarians definitionally
by definition libertarians are people
who believe that education is better
provided
from private for-profit companies
with as little involvement of the
government as possible or
absolutely zero involvement from
government and taxpayer subsidies
they want to disentangle education
from the state and if you ask them about
this they'll say ridiculous things like
well you know back in the 1830s uh the
government didn't have any role in
providing education and things were just
fine
oh yeah there were there were no social
problems back in the 1830s
there was no illiteracy back in the
1830s
there was nobody who believed the earth
was flat right there
there was no problem with the baleful
ignorance of the masses especially oh
yeah
and there was no problem with poor
people lacking access to education right
like the free market took care of it
you know you're like one google search
away from seeing just how terrible the
world was in the 1830s and why there was
the movement towards
taxpayer provided state required
mandatory education right having
education
system instead of the lack of a system
right very brief digression here
many of you in the audience will have
only had experience
with state subsidy provided education
government education
you may not have experience with the
private sector alternative
possible exceptions you might have
learned to drive a car from a
private for-profit business music you
might have learned to play the saxophone
or play the piano from a tutor
or a private business that had no
government involvement no government
regulation no government oversight you
just
paid on a fee for service base for
someone to come and teach you
how to play the guitar or how to drive a
car it's
possible you have had some very positive
experiences with private education
my one positive experience is learning
chinese i learned chinese from a
100 private for profit you know no
government subsidy no government
regulation no government control
uh institution and i couldn't speak
positively about that experience and i
can even sit here and i could flatter
the libertarian perspective on the world
by comparing how awful
my experience has been in high school
government high school and
university government i can sit here and
talk about that
um the cree
the ojibwe the mohawk the dene
the indigenous people of the great
desert of the united states like the
the navajo right the inuit
people living in poverty-stricken remote
areas
who's going to provide them with
education all right
who's even going to provide them with
access to learning how to drive a car
you know like these kinds of things you
may take for granted living in a big
city
that's possible for a for-profit company
to offer driving lessons and music
lessons and
maybe even chinese lessons right
downtown new york city there may be lots
of private businesses doing that
we'll go out to the desert where the
navajo live
go to the swamps of you know northern
ontario where the
cree and ojibwe and those people
really ask yourself who is going to
provide them with education
and of course even within the big cities
the poorest 20 of people whose
libertarianism is just a laughingstock
philosophy
it is junk economics
attached to junk politics wrapped up in
a junk
package that only idiots would buy right
as it happens a small number of
incredibly wealthy
and influential people have become
passionate adherence to the libertarian
philosophy in the
20th century and early 21st century um
alan greenspan a tremendously powerful
influential guy there were you know at
least
one of the koch brothers who became very
passionate about i'm not sure if
all two or all three of them did dabbled
with libertarianism and committed this
to one extent or another
so what is the prospect what is the
political potential
of left libertarianism or libertarian
socialism um
in shoe on head's own words and this is
where things get really
contradictory where libertarian
socialism or socialist libertarianism
starts to sound like hot ice or
dry wet or square circle it just becomes
completely confusing
is that she believes the government
should only be involved in society
in order to do good
not to do harm i suppose and then beyond
that
the government should just stay the hell
out and have no involvement
in her example i kid you not for example
of this of how she's still a libertarian
despite in some sense supporting a
socialist state he's gun control
the government just shouldn't take
anyone's guns away from them everyone
should be allowed to be
heavily armed people people should be
allowed to have machine guns
rocket launchers grenades
billboard that from her perspective it
just
it just makes no sense for the
government to regulate restrict
take guns over people now that's an
interesting contrast just a few years
ago she did actually make
videos talking about control that i have
i think about four or five years ago now
so her
her position has changed so she still
wants to flirt with or retain
some of this uh rugged individualist
and indeed implicitly right wing
libertarian ideology
while pretending to support state
socialism
in as much as it helps rather than
harmless people okay let me tell you
something about politics
in politics you don't do
good and you don't do evil
you do things
and you find out afterwards sometimes
tragically decades afterwards you find
out which one of those things
was good and which one was evil which
one worked and which didn't which was
harmful and which was helpful
you don't know you can look at some of
the worst disasters of the 20th century
including the disasters of communism
where not just millions of people died
but tens of millions of people died and
you can look at people involved in those
projects
and say that they had sincerely good
intentions they were there were people
who had good
intentions when they were putting
bayonets into babies i kid you not you
can read history from their
perspective you can see it through their
eyes and think what that was they were
they were trying to accomplish
unbelievably terrible atrocities
are routinely committed and are still
being committed to this day
and yes because of the power of the
state more often than not these things
are done with taxpayers money and they
are done by governments not by
mere individuals if you look at the
greatest atrocities of
the last few centuries pretty much all
of them seem to be paid for by taxpayers
rather than being done by the free
market free market's done some terrible
things
don't get me wrong polluted some rivers
you know
ruined some forests when you look at
tens of millions of people dying in
china
under communism it's it's hard for the
free market to compete with when you
look at
stalin hitler mao zedong it's it's hard
for a
it's hard for coca-cola to ever do
something that terrible i mean
the bow powell disaster you know there
have been some don't get me wrong
um but yeah state state services state
authority
and the budget provided by the taxpayer
tends to be involved in the greatest
disasters in history all right
um you can't say
that you only support socialism when it
works
you can't say that you only support
socialism
when it's done for good and not evil and
you have to be willing to look back at
the history of socialist
experiments not just the soviet union
not just china
a lot of really embarrassing failed
socialist experiments
in africa a lot of really embarrassing
failed socialist experiments in
south america latin america right you
have to be willing
to look at those situations and say
these people thought they were doing
something good
they thought they were using the power
and wealth of the state and the
government
to do something wonderful and it was a
disaster
and yes in some cases tens of millions
people died and in some cases
look at what happened with salvador
allende do you think he was trying to
destroy the economy of his own country
do you think he was trying
to achieve hyperinflation or ruin the
value of his currency
no he was pursuing policies very much
like the ones that are popular
on the left wing of the democrat party
united states today people who are
supporting
mmt people are supporting printing tons
of money and
running the government into debt and
thinking that it's infinite thinking
they're never going to
hit a brick wall if they just keep
spending billions of dollars
people get into their minds that they
have good intentions and are pursuing
good objectives
and
you don't find out until afterwards and
often
all too often you don't live long enough
to find out
at all okay i don't expect
shuan head to be brilliant well-informed
or well-researched in our political
opinions i really do believe
in freedom of speech within this kind of
political frontier if you like
you know i think it's a good and
positive thing for someone like her to
come here on youtube
and struggle to educate herself and make
her own mistakes
and yeah she's had periods of time where
she was more right-wing and now she's
going through a period of time where
she's more left-wing
um i think her youtube content is
absolutely dreadful and awful and
misleading and wrong
i wish i had 10 friends just like her
i wish i knew 10 other youtube channels
just like her
that are engaged in a sincere struggle
to make the world a better place
and where the personality you see on
camera however flawed
is in a sincere struggle with their own
ignorance
to become better informed to become a
better person